Add `kustomize localize` Documentation (#313)
kubernetes-sigs/cli-experimental: site/content/en/references/kustomize/cmd/localize/_index.md

---
title: "kustomize localize"
linkTitle: "localize"
type: docs
weight: 9
description: >

>     Replace urls with local paths

Author: Done. I changed this to `Replace urls with local paths to downloaded content`

>     Replace urls with local paths

Reviewer: I think we need to be more explicit that localize is actually doing the downloading, like “Downloads remote content to a local directory, and replaces urls with the downloaded content”

>     Replace urls with local paths

Author: Done.

---

Disclaimer: This is an alpha command. Please see the [command proposal](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/blob/master/proposals/22-04-localize-command.md)
for full capabilities.

### Feedback

> Please leave your feedback for this command under [the following issue](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/issues/4996).

Author: Done. `Feedback` is now the last section. Let me know if you want it before `Notes`.

> The `kustomize localize` command makes a recursive copy of a kustomization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `kustomize localize` command makes a recursive copy of a directory that contains a kustomization file,
```

Reviewer: In general we should be very specific; `kustomization` can refer to many things, and most of the time refers to the Kustomization object itself. If you could please audit for anywhere else that we may be referring to `kustomization` here when what you mean is the directory itself, please update it to be very specific.

Author: I added the word `file` or `root` to any use of `kustomization` that doesn't refer to the `kustomization` object.

For this specific case, I reworded it to `kustomization root` and linked the definition of `kustomization root` since we've defined it on our site already and we were using this term to describe `target` later in the docs anyway: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cli-experimental/pull/313/files#diff-3de085d06ca2f9e7f7dbd1c0c3c1f86786e2555ac850003aae4ab3875249b8d5R15

> ### Man

Reviewer 2: Nit: I might change this to description to be more clear and closer resemble the Linux man pages

Reviewer 3: +1. I feel like this can give users an assumption that Kustomize may have a manual pager (which is not true)

Author: Done. I changed `### Man` to `### Description`

> The copy contains files referenced both by the kustomization in question

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The copied directory contains downloaded files by the root kustomization, and all base kustomizations under it.
```

Author: I used `source kustomization` because I don't want readers to confuse `root kustomization` and `kustomization root`.

I also tried to avoid `downloaded` because the localized copy also contains copied local files. If you think it'd be nice to emphasize the remote files here and elaborate on copying the local files later, I can add it back in!

The `kustomize localize` command makes a recursive copy of a kustomization
in which referenced urls are replaced by local paths to their downloaded content.

The purpose of this command is to create a copy on which
`kustomize build`<sup>[[build]](#notes)</sup> produces the same output
without a network connection.

> The command takes the following form:

Reviewer 2: Nit: Again I might try to match the traditional man page and replace this with

`### Usage`

Reviewer 3: Yeah, do we have a doc template to follow? Maybe @KnVerey knows some good doc format we can borrow here.  
I feel like we shall add a high level description about what this command does and what use cases it fits into. @annasong20 basically you want to write a user manual but not for contributors, so you can think more about how users will want to learn a new command and what kind of info are necessary (put them at the beginning), and what is optional (treat them as reference and put under the `fields` section).

Author: @cailynse I added a section `### Usage` and put the command syntax there.

@yuwenma Thanks for the exmplanation! I elaborated on use cases under `Description`. I also moved the `Structure` and `Example` sections above `Fields`. Let me know if there's more I should do.

<pre>
<b>kustomize localize</b> [<ins>target</ins> [<ins>newDir</ins>]] [--scope <ins>scope</ins>]
</pre>

where

* `target` is the [kustomization directory](https://kubectl.docs.kubernetes.io/references/kustomize/glossary/#kustomization-root) 
to localize. This value can be a local path or a [remote root](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/blob/master/examples/remoteBuild.md). 
The default value is the current working directory.
* `newDir` is the destination of the "localized" copy that the command

> will create. The destination must reside in an existing directory.

Reviewer 3: "The destination must reside in an existing directory." suggest replacing this line with the answers about:
1. if the `newDir` does not exist, will `kustomize localize` create it ? 
2. if the `newDir` exists, does it have to be empty?
3. (if answer to 2 is No) what happens when conflicts, will `kustomize localize` detects that?

Author: Done. I updated the description here: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cli-experimental/pull/313/files#diff-3de085d06ca2f9e7f7dbd1c0c3c1f86786e2555ac850003aae4ab3875249b8d5R41-R43

Let me know if it's still unclear.

The default destination is a directory in the current working directory named:
  * `localized-{target}` for local `target`
  * `localized-{target}-{ref}`<sup>[[ref]](#notes)</sup> for remote `target`

> * `scope` is the bounding directory. The command can only copy files inside

Author: Done. I tried to make the definition more obvious.

> this directory. The default is `target`. This flag cannot be specified for

Reviewer 3: When you say "default is `target`", does it refers to the value of the target flag or the word `target`? (It reads as the word `target`, in which case we shall also list all the other enum values).

Author: Done. `target` should refer to the argument value. I changed `target` to `{target}`.

remote `target`, as its value is implicitly the repo containing `target`.

> ### Fields

Reviewer 3: It's nice to list all the supported fields. You may also want to call out "fields" in the high level command description otherwise users may have confusions about what `fields` refer to.

Author: Done. I reference `fields` here: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cli-experimental/pull/313/files#diff-3de085d06ca2f9e7f7dbd1c0c3c1f86786e2555ac850003aae4ab3875249b8d5R17

> The command "localizes", copying or downloading, files under 

Author: Done. I removed the quotation marks: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cli-experimental/pull/313/files#diff-3de085d06ca2f9e7f7dbd1c0c3c1f86786e2555ac850003aae4ab3875249b8d5R135

the following kustomization fields<sup>[[resource]](#notes)</sup>:

* `resources`
* `bases`
* `components`
* `openapi.path`
* `configurations`

> * `crds`

Reviewer 3: Shall we mark the fields like `bases`, `crd` as `deprecating`? 
Maybe this is more of a question for @natasha41575 and @Katharine, deferring to whether it's a good time to call out.

Reviewer: I think `crds` is not yet deprecated, but I think it might be good to separate the deprecated fields into a section that says "These deprecated fields are also supported by localize." More users being aware of deprecations is good I think.

Author: Done. I moved the deprecated fields into their own list: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cli-experimental/pull/313/files#diff-3de085d06ca2f9e7f7dbd1c0c3c1f86786e2555ac850003aae4ab3875249b8d5R168-R172

* `validators`

the command localizes files referenced by the following plugins<sup>[[resource]](#notes)</sup>,
which have a built-in kustomization field counterpart:

* `ConfigMapGenerator`<sup>[[gen]](#notes)</sup>
* `SecretGenerator`<sup>[[gen]](#notes)</sup>
* `HelmChartInflationGenerator`<sup>[[helm]](#notes)</sup>
* `PatchTransformer`
* `PatchJson6902Transformer`
* `PatchStrategicMergeTransformer`
* `ReplacementTransformer`

### Structure

The localized destination directory is a copy<sup>[[absolute]](#notes), [[symlink]](#notes)</sup> 
of `scope`, excluding files that `target` does not reference and 
with the addition of downloaded remote content.

Downloaded files are copied to a directory named `localized-files` located in
the same directory as the referencing kustomization. Inside `localized-files`,
the content of remote 
* roots are written to path<sup>[[localized root]](#notes)</sup>:

  <pre>
  <ins>host</ins> / <ins>path/to/repo</ins> / <ins>ref</ins> / <ins>path/to/file/in/repo</ins>
  </pre>

* files are written to the following path<sup>[[localized file]](#notes)</sup> 
constructed from its url components:

  <pre>
  <ins>host</ins> / <ins>path</ins>
  </pre>

> ### Example

Reviewer 3: This the example below real? i think we shall provide a real example in the kustomize repo and point it there. This is how other kustomize features give examples. 

https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/tree/master/examples

Author: Do you mean like this: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cli-experimental/pull/313/files#diff-3de085d06ca2f9e7f7dbd1c0c3c1f86786e2555ac850003aae4ab3875249b8d5R84-R86

        │                                   └── remote
        │                                       └── hpa.yaml
        └── github.com
            └── kubernetes-sigs
                └── kustomize
                    └── kustomize
                        └── v4.5.7
                            └── api
                                └── krusty
                                    └── testdata
                                        └── localize
                                            └── simple
                                                ├── deployment.yaml
                                                ├── service.yaml
                                                └── kustomization.yaml
```
```shell
# example/dst/kustomization.yaml
resources:
  - configMap.yaml
  - localized-files/raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/kustomize/v4.5.7/api/krusty/testdata/localize/remote/hpa.yaml
  - localized-files/github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/kustomize/v4.5.7/api/krusty/testdata/localize/simple
```

The [proposal](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/blob/master/proposals/22-04-localize-command.md) 
contains more examples.

### Notes

> * [absolute]: The alpha version of this command does not handle and
> throws an error for absolute paths.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [absolute]: The alpha version of this command does not handle absolute paths and will throw an error when they are used.
```

> * [build]: This command may not catch `build` fallacies in the kustomization, as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [build]: This command may not catch `build` errors in the kustomization, as
```

<br></br>

* [build]: This command may not catch `build` fallacies in the kustomization, as
this command serves a different purpose than `kustomize build` and does not look
to overstep its scope.
<br></br>
  
  However, this command will fail on a kustomization that requires the 
`kustomize build --load-restrictor LoadRestrictionsNone` flag to run, as

> this command copies files following security best practices.<sup>[[symlink]](#notes)</sup>

Reviewer 2: praise: Noice!
